
11. MEDLEY: - TEENY BOPPER (MENDECINO)/WOLLY BULLY (VOLLE PULLE)/CANDIDA/CHIRPY, CHIRPY, CHEEP, CHEEP/YUMMI YUMMI/SCHALALALALEE/DOO WAH DIDDY/NANANANA (HEY GOODBYE)

Teeny bopper
My teenage lover
I caught you awake last night
I set my mind on one dream
You're such a groove 
Please don't move
Please stay in my love house by the river.

Mendecino Mendecino
Where life is such a groove 
You blow my mind in the morning
We used to walk
Through the park
Make love along the way in Mendecino.

Haditomaddy
Let them take no chance
Let's not just be someone
Come and learn to dance
Wolly Bully Wolly Bully
Wolly Bully Wolly Bully Wolly Bully
Watching a watch, watch, watch.

The stars won't come out
If they know that you're about
'Cause they couldn't match the glow of your eyes
And though who am I
Just an ordinary guy
Trying hard to win me first prize
Wooo, Candida we could make it together
The further from here girl the better
Where the air is fresh and clean
Candida just take my hand and I'll lead ya
I promise life will be sweeter
And it says so in my dream.

Where's your mamma gone?  Where's your mamma gone?
Little Baby Don, Little Baby Don
Where's your mamma gone? Where's your mamma gone?
Far far away
Where's your papa gone? Where's your papa gone?
Little Baby Don, Little Baby Don
Where's your papa gone? Where's your papa gone?
Far far away
Far far away.

Last night I heard my mamma singing this song
Oohee chirpy chirpy cheep cheep
Woke up this morning and my mamma was gone
Oohee chirpy chirpy cheep cheep chirpy chirpy cheep cheep chirp.

Yummy yummy yummy I've got love in my tummy
And I feel lika loving you
Love you such a sweet thing good enough to eat
Thinka that's what I'm gonna do
Who loves to hold you
Who loves to kiss you
Who loves I love it so
Who loves you sweet heart
Sweeter than sugar
Who loves I won't let you go
Yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy.
 
Picked her up on a Friday night schalalalalee, yeah
I knew everything's gonna be all right
Schalalalalee, yeah, schalalalalee
I ask her where do you want to go schalalalalee, yeah
And we went some place soft and low
Schalalalalee, yeah, schalalalalee.

There she was justa walking down the street singing
Doo wah diddy diddy dum diddy doo
I'm popping my fingers and a shuffle in her feet 
Singing doo wah diddy diddy dum diddy doo
She looked good, looked good
She looked fine, looked fine
She looked good, she looked fine and I nearly lost my mind
Before I knew it she was walking next to me singing
Doo wah diddy diddy dum diddy doo
Holding my hand just as natural as can be singing
Doo wah diddy diddy dum diddy doo
We walked on, walked on, to my door; my door
We walked on to my door then we kissed a little more.

Nananana nananana hey hey, good bye
Nananana nananana hey hey, good bye
Nananana nananana hey hey, good bye.

