
Duet from the Pearl Fishers
---------------------------
This packet contains two files as follows:-

     PEARLMID.MID        Standard MIDI File. Single track.
                         Channel 1 contains accompaniment,
                         originally Harp. Channel 3 contains
                         the tenor part and Channel 4 contains
                         the baritone part; both parts should
                         be choir. The normal playing speed is
                         66 bpm.
                         
     PEARLFIS.G02        SY85 Seq All format. The song is
                         stored in Song 1. Track 1 is the
                         right-hand accompaniment and track 2
                         is the left-hand accompaniment; both
                         configured for Harp. Track 3 contains
                         the tenor part and track 4 contains
                         the baritone part; both configured
                         for Choir. There is an unused rhythm
                         track that was originally configured
                         to provide an 8-beat per bar
                         metronome. The volume on the rhythm
                         track is shut off completely and
                         should remain so unless you choose to
                         program a proper rhythm track (N.B.
                         the metronome effect uses a custom
                         rhythm which is not supplied here).
                         
I am keen to exchange files with other SY85 owners, especially
sound samples and waves since, so far, I have been unable to
find a source of such files.

Please note that the SY85 assigns a number to each song. If
you already have a song number 2 on your disc then your should
choose an empty song number and rename PEARLFIS.G02 to
PEARLFIS.Gnn where nn is your chosen number.

I hope you enjoy this version - all comments welcome.

It was entered into the SY85 sequencer in step time mode from
the music.

Regards

Steve.
100014,1312



