                  Thriller ( Michael Jackson )


It's close to midnight and something evil's lurking in the dark.
Under the moonlight you see a sight that almost stops your heart.
You try to scream , but terror takes the sound before you make it.
You start to freeze , as horror looks you right between the eyes,
You're paralyzed -

Refr. 'Cos that is thriller , thriller night ,
      And noone's gonna save you from the beast about to strike.
      You know it's thriller , thriller night,
      You're fighting for your life inside a killer thriller tonight.

You hear the door slam , and realize there's nowhere left to run.
And you feel the cold hand and wonder,if you'll ever see the sun.
And you close you eyes and hope that this is just imagination , girl ,
But all the while you hear the creature creepin' up behind ,
You're out of time -

Refr. 'Cos that is thriller , thriller night ,
      There ain't no second chance against the thing with the forty eyes,
      Girl , you know it's thriller ,thriller night ,
      You're fighting for your life inside a killer thriller tonight.

Night creatures call and the dead start to walk in their masquerade .
There's no escapin' the jaws of the alien this time ,
This is the end of your life.

They're out to get you , there's demons closing in on every side.
They will possess you unless you change that number on your dial.
Now is the time for you and I to cuddle closer together.
All thru the night I'll save you from the terrors on the screen ,
I'll make you see -
 
Refr. That it's a thriller , thriller night ,
      'Cos I can thrill you more than any ghost would dare to try.
      That it's a thriller , thriller night ,
      So let me hold you tight and share a killer , diller , chiller ,
      Thriller here tonight.
      Girl this is thriller , thriller night , ...
      I'm gonna thrill you tonight.

(Darkness falls across the land , the midnight hour is close at hand.
 Creatures crawl in the surch of blood,to terrorize Y'awl's neighbourhood
 And who so ever shall be found without the soul for getting down
 Must stand and face the hounds of hell and rot inside a corpse's shell.)
                                         - Performed by Vincent Price - 

I'm gonna thrill you tonight, thriller ,thriller , I'm gonna thrill you
Tonight , ...
 
