7. MARY'S BOY CHILD (OH MY LORD) - BONEY M.

Intro 1 (a capella):
Mary's Boy Child, Jesus Christ, was born on Christmas Day
And man will live for evermore  because of Chri-istmas Day.

Intro 2 (instrumental, Steel Drums): 4 Takte

Vers 1:
Long time ago  in Bethlehem, so the Holy Bible said,
Mary's Boy Child, Jesus Christ, was born  on Chri-istmas Day.

Refrain:
Hark, now hear  the angels sing,  a King was born today
And man will live  for evermore  because  of Chri-istmas Day.
Mary's Boy Child, Jesus Christ, was born  on Chri-istmas Day.

Vers 2:
While shepards watched  their flocks by night  they see a bright new shining star
They hear a choir  sing a song, the music seemed  to come from afar.

Refrain:
Hark, now hear the angels sing, ........

Zwischenvers/ Sänger allein:
For a moment the world was aglow  
All the bells  rang out, there were tears of joy and laughter

Zwischenvers/ Boney M. zusammen:
People shouted "Let ev'ryone know,  there is hope for all to find peace!"

Vers 3/ Tonartwechsel:
Now Joseph and his wife Mary  came to Bethlehem that night
They found no place  to bear her child,  not a single room was in sight.

Vers 4:
And then they found a little nook  in a stable all forlorn
And in a manger  cold and dark  Mary's little boy-oy was born.

Refrain:
Hark, now hear the angels sing, ...

Zwischenvers/ Sänger allein:
For a moment the world was aglow
All the bells  rang out, there were tears of joy and laughter

Zwischenvers/ Boney M. zusammen:
People shouted: "Let ev'ryone know,  there is hope  for all to find peace!"

Songteil "Oh My Lord"

Vers 1 (a capella, nur von Drums begleitet):
Oh my Lord, you send your son to save us,  oh my Lord, your very self you gave us,
Oh my Lord, that sin may not enslave us and love may reign once more.

Vers 2 (wieder mit voller Begleitung):
Oh my Lord, when in the crib they found him,  oh my Lord, a golden halo crowned him,
Oh my Lord, they gathered all around him   to see him and adore.

Vers 3:
Oh my Lord, with the child's adoration,  oh my Lord, there came great jubilation,
Oh my Lord,  and full of admiration   they realized what they had.
(Zwischenruf Sängerin: "Until the sun falls from the sky!")

Vers 4 (mit Zwischenrufen Sänger/ Sängerin in den Chor):
Oh my Lord (Oh my Lord/ well, praise the Lord),  you send your son to save us,
Oh my Lord (Oh my Lord/ he is the truth forever),  your very self you gave us
Oh my Lord (Oh my Lord/ so praise the Lo-o-ord), that sin may not enslave us .....

Fade Out
