                             YELLOW ROSE OF TEXAS                                     

     As performed by: Audrey Landers                                                                      


     He was just a Rhinestone cowboy, ridin' into town,
     talkin' 'bout the many years he'd travelled all around..
     but he had the bluest eyes, I think that I have ever seen..
     an' I knew that I was fallin' as he said these words to me..

     You're the yellow rose of Texas, you're an Angel in my eyes
     an' if you give your love to me I'll never say goodbye
     I will be your Romeo-o, you can be my Juliet,
     you're the finest rose of Texas that I think I've ever met.

     You're the yellow rose of Texas,....yellow rose of Texas,....
     yellow rose of Texas, (yellow rose of Texas),....
     yellow rose of Texas.

     SHORT BRIDGE...............

     So around the world I travelled, the Belle of ev'ry Ball.
     I wore the finest dresses, yes I thought we had it all..
     But I knew down deep inside me I was really all alone,
     with ev'ryone so far away, I missed my Texas home.

     So I caught the first connection,..I took the fastest train,
     'cause I had to be in Texas where the people know my na-ame..
     as I came around the corner..I could see our little home..
     an' I knew that if I never left I'd never be alone.

     I'm the yellow rose of Texas,.....yellow rose of Texas.....
     yellow rose of Texas, (yellow rose of Texas) yellow rose of Texas.

     SHORT BRIDGE...............

     He was just a Rhinestone cowboy, ridin' into town,
     talkin' 'bout the many years he'd travelled all around..
     but I jus' looked an' smiled at him 'cause now I really know,
     I'm the yellow rose of Texas..an' Texas is my home.

     I'm the yellow rose of Texas,.....the yellow rose of Texas.....
     yellow rose of Texas, (yellow rose of Texas) yellow rose of Texas.....
     yellow rose of Texas, (yellow rose of Texas) yellow rose of Texas.....
     yellow rose of Texas, (yellow rose of Texas) yellow rose of Texas.....



     Lyrics supplied by "THE LYRICS BANK" Inh. John A. Christie

