MARS, the Bringer of War from The Planets by Gustav Holst.

This turned out to be quite a project. I sequenced 99% of it on an Ensoniq
VFXsd. The final 8 bars were added after sending it over to the PC using 
WinJammer. On the VFXsd this is 15 separate sequences tied together as a song.

Here are some notes to try and make porting MARS to your rig a little easier.

Track 5 is the only track that has a patch change in then middle (see below).
Track 2 has a program change and a sysex at the beginning. All other tracks
have no patch changes. 

A patch map follows with a brief description of how the patches sound.

Track 0, no cannel assigned: Tempo Changes and Time Signatures.

Track 1, channel 1: Pizzicato (VFXsd)

	This sounds very close to a real string section except that the initial
	pluck is somewhat subdued.

Track 2, channel 2: Fr Horn 1 (MT-32)

	This is a full-muted French Horn sound. Very rich, it can make your
	speakers click and pop if used at a velocity of 127.

Track 3, channel 9: Wood Flute (VFXsd)

	This sounds very much like a flute. It can double as a piccolo in the
	upper range. There is a breathy 'Too' on the attack and a touch of
	vibrato on the sustain.

Track 4, channel 10: Sq Strings (VFXsd)

	This is a very strong, rough sounding string. There is a motion to the
	sound and an undertone that sounds like the bow being drawn across the
	string. It maintians is its character throughout the range.

Track 5, channel 11: Clarinet/PipeOrgan (SQ-R)

	A good clarinet sound. I don't use it much, it gets lost. On this track
	at 860:000 there is a patch change to Pipe Organ. Use the biggest
	sounding Cathedral Pipe Organ you've got.

Track 6, channel 12: French Horn (SQ-R)

	This sounds more like a Baritone/Euphonium than a French Horn and I use
	it as such. With a small stretch of the imagination it could sound like
	a Trombone.

Track 7, channel 13: Orch Perc * (SQ-R)

	This is a real Timpani sound on the low end and Snare Drum on the high
	end. All notes F#5 and below are Timpani, G5 and above are snare drum.

Track 8, channel 14: L.A. Brass (SQ-R)

	When played by itself, this sounds like an L.A. Brass section. A little
	too heavy on the Chorus effect. When played in ensemble it cuts through
	just enough to be pretty convincing as a Trumpet section.

Track 9, channel 15: Double Reed (VFXsd)

	A Contra-Bassoon on the low end, Basson in the middle and an Oboe on
	the high end. There is a touch of vibrato on the sustain here too.

Track 10, channel 16: Trombone-1 (VFXsd)

	This sounds much better than the MT-32 "Trombone". It's really a
	Trumpet sample that has been transposed and tweeked. But it does very
	nicely.

The ironic thing about these sounds is that the brass sounds tend to be the
weakest ones. That is, it takes more volume/velocity to get the sound to a
level even with the string or woodwind sounds. I've made some small attempts at
equalizing them.

Watch out for the sysex message on track 2, it mutes all parts except Part 1
on channel 2 on the MT-32.  If you're using an MT-32 related synth as your
only instrument then filter out the sysex or you will only hear french
horns <g>.

I'd be interested in any comments that you'd like to make.

Jack Hines, 72321,357
