Tampa, Florida
November 15, 1992

        Having finally learned that you can't do a decent vocal lead on a
keyboard, I did not provide one here. This is a karaoke sequence.
        It's "All I Need Is a Miracle (Mike & the Mechanics)," played in real
time, and then forced into a structure by Cakewalk Professional's
"Fit/Improvisation" facilities. The vocal begins at the 29th measure. An 8-bar
instrumental bridge occurs at the 99th bar.
        For SY77 users, a multi and a bass patch are provided in the
View/Sysex section of the Cakewalk version of this upload. If that is your
only synth, you may wish to change the Millenium patch to something else,
because it's a real polyphony gobbler. 
        You will probably want to mute the "wind noise" track unless you have
a Proteus or some other instrument with wind noise in it. For Proteus /1
users, the wind noise patch is also included in the View/Sysex section of the
Cakewalk upload.

        Patches:
        1). Millenium is a complicated, evolving pad with bass AND high note
action.
        2). Nasty Saw is an analog synth that does some sustaining high notes
(as if it were strings) and also plays some chords.
        3). Mute guitar. The controversy around here is whether this mute
guitar part works or not. You'll want to mix it pretty far back, or maybe even
bag it altogether.
        4). Harmonic synth. This is a plucked synth sound that plays the first
four bars of the bridge solo.
        5). Alto sax plays the next four bars.
        6). PianoBell is the traditional synth/pop bell sound. If you don't
have one, use a piano, but not in a low register.
        7). Wind noise. Patch provided for Proteus users. If you have no wind
noise in your synthesizer, for God's sake, MUTE THIS TRACK!
        8). SPD-8 drums (the Roland SPD-8 is a drum sound module with pads
that you play with sticks and pedals). This is a consolidated drum track
mapped (I think) like a Roland R8. Try it first. If it doesn't work, mute it,
and then dial in drum individual sounds on the other tracks. But be sure that
either the SPD 8 track OR the individual tracks are muted. You'll waste
voices, otherwise.        
        9). Continuous controllers: There is pitch bend in the sax track,
which you probably don't want to remove. Controller 1 (mod wheel) occurs in
the Nasty Saw track for tremolo. And there is some Controller 7 (volume)
information on the Nasty Saw and Millenium tracks (I had to midi-mix those
because I ran out of inputs on my board). 
        10). Your homework: Make this better! The drums need a lot of work in
the fills and -- clearly -- I didn't nail down the chord changes where the
key shifts. Comments appreciated!

                                                        Rick Stone
                                                        76615,2155                                                
        
