SALLY'S SONG

By M. Michael Pizar
Copyright 1994 M. M. Pizar

Father Dear, have you met Sally?  She's as sad as she cn be.
Her daddy had his way with her since she was only three.
Even though it's long been over, and her daddy's gone away,
The pain she's hidden in her heart, only You can take away.

Then there's David and there's Daniel, they get beaten ev'ry day;
And then they lie to cover up how they both got bruised that way.
Baby Tina has addictions, for her mother has them too,
And sicknesses are in her blood.  Lord, I bring this child to You.

        (CHORUS)
        Will they ever see the Savior coming through a parent's heart?
        Will they ever know the love of God that a parent should impart?
        If they never find the love of God in the family that they see,
        If they never see the Father's love, Precious Father of all,
                Let them see Your love in me.

There's a young girl down on Main Street, and the guys all know her well.
She ran away four years ago to escape her private hell.
Now she's trapped in yet another that destroys her heart and soul.
Lord, help her know Your kind of love.  Only You can make her whole.

Will the cycle just continue, or will Sally break away?
Will David and his brother Dan beat their children ev'ry day?
Though there's not much hope for Tina, maybe for a little while,
If I could touch her little heart, maybe then You'll see her smile.

        (CHORUS)

        (BRIDGE)
        Do you know a hurting child? Can you feel their fear and pain?
        Give to them your open heart. Give them love in Jesus' Name...
                In Jesus' Name.

        (KEY CHANGE)

        (CHORUS)

                                Copyright 1994 M. M. Pizar

Distribution is permitted, as long as Midi file, This lyric file, and
the accompanying INFO.TXT file are kept together, and no profit is obtained.
For more info, or licensing contact:

                                MICHAEL MINISTRIES
                                1455  90th Ave. #57 West
                                Vero Beach, FL 32966
                                (407) 778-3799
