BEATLES MEDLEY - Stars On 45

Let's do it!
Let's do it!
Let's do it!

You can boogie, love disco
love tha disco sound
Move on your body, spinning round and round
But don't, don't, don't, don't forget oh no!
Don't, don't, don't, don't forget oh no!
The Stars on 45
Keep turnin' in your eyes
But we can work it out
Remember Twist & Shout
You still don't tell me why
and don't reply


This happened once before
When I came to your door, no reply,
They said it wasn't you
But I saw you peep through your window

You know if you break my heart I'll go,
But I'll be back again, 'cause I told you once before goodbye
But I came back again.

Asked a girl what she wanted to be
She said: "baby, can't you see, I wanna be famous
A star of the screen, but you can do something in between"
"Baby you can drive my car, yes, I'm gonna be a star
Baby you can drive my car, and maybe I'll love you"

Listen, do you wanna know a secret?
Do you promise not to tell? Whoa
Closer, let me whisper in your ear
Say the word I love to hear
I'm in love with you, Oo

Try to see it my way,
Do I have to keep on talking till I can't go on?
While you see it your way,
Run the risk of knowing that our love may soon be gone
We can work it out
We can work it out

I should have known better with a girl like you
That I would love everything that you do
And I do Hey hey hey

He's a real nowhere man, sitting in his nowhere land

You're gonna lose that girl,
You're gonna lose that girl,
You're gonna lose that girl,

I think I'm gonna be sad, I think it's today, yeh
The girl that's driving is going away
She's got a ticket to ride
She's got a ticket to ride
She's got a ticket to ride
But she don't care

Say the word and you'll be free
Say the word and be like me
Say the word I'm thinking of
Have you heard the word is love?
It's so fine it's sunshine, it's the word love.

Ah, look look at all the lonely people!
Ah, look look at all the lonely people!

When I'm walking beside her 
People tell me I'm lucky
Yes, I know I'm a lucky guy
I remember the first time, I was lonely without her
Yes I'm thinking about her now
Every little thing she does, she does for me, yeah
And you know the things she does, she does for me, Oo

You tell me that you've got every thing you want
And your bird can sing, but you don't get me, you don't get me
When your prized possessions start to wear you down
Look in my direction, I'll be round, I'll be round

Jo Jo was a man who thought he was a loner
But he knew it couldn't last
Jo Jo left his home in Tucson Arizona for some Californian grass
Get back, get back get back to where you once belonged
Get back, get back get back to where you once belonged
 
Got a good reason for taking the easy way out
Got a good reason for taking the easy way out, now
She was a day tripper, one-way ticket, yeh!
It took me so long to find out and I found out.

It's been a long time, now I'm comin' back home
I've been away now, Oh, how I've been alone.
Wait 'til I come back to your side, 
We'll forget the tears we cried
But if your heart breaks, don't wait, turn me away
And if your heart is strong, hold on, I won't delay

The Stars on 45
Keep turnin' in your eyes
But we can work it out
Remember Twist & Shout
You still don't tell me why
and don't reply