
Trini Lopez Medley                                     Nr: 0339

Brrr rr yeah ui  la la la la la la.....

I'll take you back to the old days, and i will sing a song
won't you all remember so come on and sing along.


Ah, ah, ah, ah,
Bailar Bamba, bailar la la LA BAMBA,
bailar la la la Bamba, se necesita
una poquita de gracia, una poquita de gracia yo tra cosita
y arriba, y arriba, arriba, y arriba, y arribire
por ti sere, por ti sere, singing
Bamba bamba, bamba bamba, bamba bamba
ah, ah, ah, ah, aaaah

I like to be in AMERICA, o.k. by me in America
everything's free in America, for us, for me in America
I like the city of San Juan, I know a boat you can get on
hundreds of flowers in food-room, hundred of people in each room, ui,
la, la, la, la, la.....

LEMON TREE, very pretty and the lemon flower so sweet
but the fruit of the pure lemon is impossible to eat      (2x)

GREEN GREEN it's green they say, on the far side of the hill
green green I'm going away to where the grass is greener still

Well I told my mama on the day I was born
would you cry when you see I'm gone
you know there ain't no woman gonna sattle me down
I just got to be travelling on, everybody

Green, green.....

Oh, give me this song everybody, ui
THIS LAND IS YOUR LAND, THIS LAND IS MY LAND
from California to the New York island
from the Red Wood Forest, to the gulf stream waters
this land was made for you and me

La, la, la, la, la, la (oh singing pretty) ....
All day, all night MARY ANN
down by the seaside sit in sand
even little children of Mary Ann
down by the seaside sit in sand

Well I met my little bright eyed dove DOWN BY THE RIVERSIDE,
down by the riverside, down by the riverside
well I met my little bright eyed dove down by the riverside,
down by the riverside, down by the riverside

Brr yeah oh singing everybody, come on
uh, uh,... hey hey, uh, uh,... ah ah,
IF I HAD A HAMMER, I'd hammer in the morning
I'd hammer in the evening all over this land
I'd hammer out of danger, I'd hammer out of warnings
I'd hammer 'bout the love between my brothers and my sisters
aah, all over this land (singing everybody)

Uuh, uuh, uuh,.....

La la la la la la.....
