5. I GOT 5 ON IT - LUNIZ

Creep on in, on in
Oh, see I'm riding high
Wowow
Kind of broke to see you all us
And all I got is 5
I got 5.

Player, get me some brew
And I might just chill
But I'm the type that likes to light another joint
Like sight will see
I still fill these pillages when I'm puff on me
I got some bucks on me but it ain't enough for me
Go and get the estaty I deal E S 
Nevertheless I'm all the fresh, rolling joints like the cigarette
So basic brought the table like ping pong
I'm gone, beating my chest like King Kong
It's on, wrap my lips around the fungy
And when they come, they get another soggy
Fools all kick in like Zanobi
Nomy and Naomi to begin with
There's too many heads to beat
Probably let my friend hit bit
Unless you pull out the fat crisby
Five dollar bill on the reel before was history
'Cause fools we have no vacuum loves 
And if you let them in and even breath you 
Well, you're dum da dum dum.

I come to school with a tailor on my earlobe
A boy know that thick teasers, geezers and weirdoes
That we don't want off the land like with a blam bat
Give me two bucks, you take a profit bat my bomb back
Suck up that drink like a slurpy, the serious
Mum will make an eggy go delirious like Eddie Murphy
I got my war pays than Maggie
'Cause always nags me to take the drink off the baggie.

And I got 5 on it (got it good) 
Grab your four, let's get keen
I got five on it
Messing with that indo weed
I got 5 on it (got it)
It's got me stuck and I tow back
I got 5 on it
Try now, let's go have fun a sack.

I take sax to the finks
Whenever I care, don't need no credits 
I'm so keyed up to till the joint be burnin' in my hand
Next time I roll it in the hamper to burn slow 
So the ashes won't be burnin' in my head bro
Who these can hit, but they know they got their pitch in it
I roll a joint, that's no good than your extension
'Cause I'll be damned if you get high off me for free
Hell no, you better bring your own split cheep.

Well, some don't baby sit back by the pass the joint
Stop eating 'cause you know you've got asthma   
Crack the poggie up and hold me and guzzle it
'Cause I know the weed of my system is getting lonely
I got to take a whiz test of my appeal                                                                                           
I know I feel 'cause I smoke major weed broke
And every time we would criss that fool roll up another fatty
But the tango race trick had me. 

And I got 5 on it (got it good) 
Grab your 4, let's get keen
I got 5 on it
Messing with that indo weed
I got 5 on it (got it)
It's got me stuck and I tow back
I got 5 on it (got it good)
Come now, let's go have fun a sack.

Hey, make this right man 
Stop at the light, man
My yesterday night bang got me hung off the night train
You fade out fake so let's head to the east
Hit the stroll it and out so we can roll big hashish
I wish I could fade the ache
But I'm no wonder, still rolling the two don't cut the same old bucket
Foggy window, soggy indo
I'm in the lane getting smoke with my kid up  in smoke.

Yeah, I spray your layer in down
Nothing the wake either in town
Homies don't play around
We down don't play a pound
Then ease out, speed up, cool the E S O
Drink the veekesso, pee up
What the name is squeeze up
And everybody's brother on the roller
That's what the photo up
Out of a bunch of sticky dozer
Oh yeah, suck up my weed is all you need
We can feed 'cause where I be
We need to act like a fool fool.

And I got 5 on it (got it good) 
Grab your 4, let's get keen
I got 5 on it
Messing with that indo weed
I got 5 on it (got it)
It's got me stuck and I tow back
I got 5 on it (got it good)
Come now, let's go have fun a sack.