12. TOGETHER WE'RE STRONG - MIREILLE MATHIEU & PATRICK DUFFY

Vorspiel (8 Takte):

Intro (gesprochen, er):
A great man once said: Winter never fails to turn into spring.
And though we're so different, you and I, when we're together
even the cold of December feels like the middle of May.

Vers 1:
Sie: You are the night, I am the day.
     You are the star that shows the way.
     You are the instrument I play,
     You're all the words I long to say.
Er: You are the land, I am the sea, you are in counterpoint to me
    And we agree to disagree  Beide: No need to lie-ie.

Vers 2: (Er singt im Hintergrund: "Together we're strong ")
Sie: I only know when we're apart, I only live with half a heart.
     I need your hand to play my card
Beide: Together we're strong, we can't go wrong!
Sie: And now we know just what to do,
     and how to get our meaning through.
     We're only ohne when we are two
Beide: Together we're stro-ong!

Zwischenstück: (Sie allein):
Together we're strong,  together we're strong, 
together we're strong,  together we're strong, we can't go wrong!

Vers 3:
Sie: And every time your eyes meet mine, 
     I feel the world fall into line.
     I'm passing on that good luck sign, 
Beide: Let's keep hanging o-on 
       And now we know just what to do,
       and how to get our meaning through

       We're only one when we are two, together we're stro-ong 

Zwischenvers (Gesang von ihr und ihm teilweise überlappend!):
Sie: And I will always try to understand you  Er: I'll be there if 
you should need me  Sie: Plan you in my life  Er: There's so much 
we can share with each other  Sie: But if we say goodbye it's not 
for ever  Er: I can't lose you now I've found you  Sie: I need you
in my life  Er: 'Cause now you're in my life.  

Bridge (gesprochen, er):
And together we're strong  there are so many ways of looking at 
the world  Everyone has a different dream, yours may not be the
same as mine, but when we are together we can make them all come true!

Vers 4 (Er singt im Hintergrund: "Together we're strong ")
Sie: You are the night, I am the day.
     You are the star that shows the way
     You are the instrument I play.
     You'are all the words I long to say.
(Sie singt im Hintergrund: "Together we're strong ")
Er: You are the land, I am sea, you are in counterpoint to me.
    And we agree to disagree  Beide: No need to lie-ie!

Schlußvers: (Er singt im Hintergrund: "Together we're strong ")
Sie: You are the night, I am the day.
     You are the star that shows the way.
     You are the music to my song.
Beide: Together we're stro-ong 
Er: Together we're strong 
Beide: Together we're stro-ong - (Sie hält den Ton bis zum Schluß, 
Er spricht noch hinein: "Together we're strong!"
