6. MEDLEY FROM OKLAHOMA (OH, WHAT A BEAUTIFUL DAY/SURREY WITH A FRINGE ON THE TOP/PEOPLE SAY WE'RE IN LOVE/OKLAHOMA) 

There's a bright golden haze on the middle
There's a bright golden haze on the middle
The corn ears is high
Is an elephant's eye
And it looks like it's climbing clear up to the sky.

Oh, what a beautiful morning
Oh, what a beautiful day
I got a beautiful feeling everything's going my way.

Oh, the cattle is standing like statues
Oh, the cattle is standing like statues
They don't turn their heads as they see me ride by
But a little brown maverick is winking her eye.

Oh, what a beautiful morning
Oh, what a beautiful day
I got a beautiful feeling everything's going my way
Oh, what a beautiful day.

Chicks and ducks and geese better scurry
When I take you out in a surrey
When I take you out in the surrey with a fringe on top.

Watch that green jen, see how it flutters
When I drive it past, high step and strutters
Nosy folks will peep through the shutters
And their eyes will pop
The wheels are yellow, the upholstery's brown
The dashboard going on leather
With ours as glass curtains
You can roll right down
In case there's a change in the weather.

Two bright side lights winking and blinking
Ain't got finer rig on the finking
You can keep your rig if you're thinking
And you'd get a swap
For that shiny little surrey
With a fringe on the top.

Don't praise my charms too much
Don't look so vain with me
Don't stand in the rain with me
People will say we're in love.

Don't take my arm too much
Don't keep your hand in mine
Your hand feels so grand in mine
People will say we're in love.

Don't dance all night with me
Till the stars think I'm a bird
They'll see it's all right with me
People will say we're in love.

Oklahoma, where the wind come sweeping down the plain 
And the laden wheat, it sure smells sweet
When the wind comes right behind the rain
Oklahoma, every night my honey lamb and I
Sit alone and talk and watch a hawk
Making lazy circles in the sky
We know we belong to the land
And the land we belong to is grand
And I'll be saying Oh
Ayo...
Hey...
We're only saying
You're doing fine Oklahoma
Oklahoma OK
Oklahoma.