@060 Pegasus by James (September 15, 1920.  Stark Music Co., St. Louis). The trio uses the same harmonic progression found in such later popular songs as Birth of the Blues and Tip Toe Through the Tulips. Structure:  INTRO AA BB CC INTRO BB
@061 Pine Apple Rag by  Scott Joplin. ( October 12 1908- New York:  Seminary Music Co). This is among the very finest rags ever written.  An advanced way of handling folk material, the A section is one of his happiest and brightest.  The B section is extremely pianistic with a solid use of rhythm as the major focal point of this section.  The C section changes the emotional level to one of introspection.  In keeping with this, note the use of the minor seventh in the trio which is the only time Joplin used such an intense blues coloration.  Changing moods once again for the last section, Joplin cleverly integrated the former mood while offering a more optimistic outlook.  In the last two sections (C and D) the harmonies and use of bass lines are extremely adventurous.  In a detailed analysis of ragtime composition, on characteristic becomes evident:  the intermingling of pentatonicism, chromaticism, formal European traditions and black folk-materials produces moments of the richest beauty which sometimes defy a one-way analysis of what we hear.  This ambiguity arises from the strength of incorporated traditions, a synthesis of both black and white sources, and is at the same time one of the joys of ragtime's art.  For example, the most moving idea in Joplin's trio of Pine Apple Rag comes with the melodic and harmonic coloration in the third measure which can be heard three different ways.  A jazz-oriented listener would hear this idea as a blue seventh on the subdominant.  If the melody line alone is heard, one hears it as a flattened third.  It can also appear as an enharmonically-spelled German six-chord (see also the commentary on Marshall's The Peach).The third theme of this rag has the vocal quality that probably suggested its future use as a song (see below); otherwise a strange choice.  It is not particularly distinctive except for a joyful and very ragged second theme but is well enough constructed and substantial.INTRO AA BB A CC DD

@062 Pleasant Moments - a ragtime waltz by Scott Joplin (1909 -New York:  Seminary Music Co.,).
A further attempt, in the manner of Bethena, to write a ragtime waltz.  It is by no means as ambitious or as intricate as its predecessor, sticking to four simple sections without linking passages, nor has it the same melodic distinction.  It has a gentle nature and considerable delicacy, but one wonders whether the Seminary Music Co. found much sale for this kind of thing.

@063  This is a medley: Poor Butterfly , Only Girl, and  Pretty Baby 
@064  The Ragtime Dance - a song (w. Scott Joplin) (December 21, 1906.  John Stark & Son, St. Louis). Originally written as a folk ballet with lyrics, it was performed at Wood's Opera House in Sedalia before the turn of this century.  Published in this form by Stark in 1902, it was a commercial failure.  In an effort to recoup his losses, he issued this instrumental version which eliminated a 32-measure verse.  This is a joyous work and, in keeping with his other rags written in Sedalia, a most beautiful ragtime number. We can be glad that John Stark renewed his faith in Joplin and in this contentious song to re-publish it in pure ragtime form (even if only to recoup his losses) for it, not unnaturally, harks back to the old Sedalia ragtime dance vein, using the second dance section of the song now as its first strain and tidying up the final stop-time section into something that makes a riotous piano showpiece in any circumstances.  As the instructions say: 'To get the desired effect of "Stop Time" the pianist will please Stamp the heel of one foot heavily upon the floor at the word "Stamp".  Do not raise the toe from the floor while stamping.'  Explicit instructions.  The effect as the stop chords and figures move back into a genuine driving stomp at the end is exhilarating.  'Not to fast' but it will hold the road safely at anything up to (160). With experience in not only ragtime, but marches, waltzes and a fair amount of vocal music, Joplin was beginning to have ambitions to write something on a larger scale, certainly an opera was hovering very insistently in his mind.  His ambition for ragtime was boundless.  In this he and John Stark did not see eye to eye.  Much as Stark admired Joplin and ragtime he wanted it to stay an unpretentious popular music of solid worth, particularly if it sold in the manner of Maple Leaf Rag.  Joplin's first venture into an extended song and dance form was The Ragtime Dance.  Structure:  INTRO AA BB CC D E F 

@065   Ragtime Nightingale by Joseph Lamb ( June 10, 1915.  Stark Music Co., St. Louis ) One of the all too rare descriptions of how a great rag was inspired and set about is Joe's story of how he was inspired by Scott's Ragtime Oriole and the concept of a bird-call rag.  He didn't know what a nightingale sounded like, but it took a bit from Chopin's Revolutionary Etude and another bit from Ethelbert Nevin's Nightingale Song.  Highlight comes in section A which sets a majestic mood, largely in C minor. Structure:  INTRO AA BB A CC INTRO-2 B
@066 Reflection Rag - syncopated musings by Scott Joplin (December 4, 1917.  Stark Music Co., St. Louis). This piece, obviously in the publisher's files, was published by Stark eight months after Joplin's death on 1 April of that year.  It is so untypical of Joplin that its authenticity might be doubted.  At best it suggests an experimental piece which he may have discarded. In a blurb when this was issued, Stark mentioned two more unpublished Joplin manuscripts owned by him.  These were destroyed during the 1930s when the family moved their plant.  Reflection is a pleasant rag with a characteristic final section which winds up Joplin's ragtime with a strong, optimistic feeling. Structure:  INTRO AA BB CC DD EE
@067 Rooster Rag by  Muriel Pollock. (1917 New York:  Jos. W. Stern & Co).
@068 Rose Leaf' Rag by  Scott Joplin (November 15, 1907.  Jos. M. Daly Music Publishing Co., Boston). A further development of Joplin's classic rag style, delicate and assured without actually achieving his utmost memorability.  The second strain has a touch of originality about it. Section A is a study in contrary motion in ragtime.  Section B shows a highly developed syncopation pattern for the piano.  C section works in the folk idiom with sophisticated harmonies.  D section follows the other 1907 rags with a strong and happy finish. Structure:  INTRO AA BB A CC DD

@069 Searchlight Rag:  A Syncopated March and Two Step by  Scott Joplin. (1907- New York: Jos. W. Stern & Co). Yet again Joplin pays tribute to his old friend Tom Turpin with a reflected memory of the gold mining days of Turpin and his brother Charlie in the town of Searchlight, Nevada, way back in 1881.  It is a good striding piece with Turpinesque rolling bass that anticipates the developing barrel-house style.  The fourth theme brings in a bit of dissonant humor.  (144). Optimistic and strutting, the A section looks forward to the brilliant Pine Apple Rag.  The C section is unusual for Joplin as he switches the syncopation from right to left and back to the right hand.  The D section is in the old socko finish tradition with which he ended his earliest works and which becomes a feature of all the 1907-8 rags.
Structure:  INTRO AA BB A CC DD
@070 Sensation Rag by  Joseph F. Lamb. ( October 8, 1908.  Stark Music Co., New York).
The most interesting feature of the rag is the way popular harmonic devices were used to construct a Classic rag. Structure:  AA BB A CC D
@071 By the Light of  The Silvery Moon by Edwards. This favorite singalong is done here in the key of Bb. Note the use of many different stylistic techniques in playing the melody - in 3rds, 6ths, down or up an octave. 
@072 Slippery Elm Rag by Clarence Woods. ( December 2, 1912.  Bush & Gerts Piano Co., Dallas).
Section A combines three features:  the "three-over-four," an even flow of sixteenth notes and the syncopation A and B are chromatic melodically, and C has a fine and unusual break which, with the indicated slurs, achieves a blues quality.  The whole composition balances chromaticism and blues writing to become one of the most original rags ever written. Structure:  INTRO AA BB CC B
@073 The Smiler Rag by Percy Wenrich. (January 2, 1907.  Arnett-Delonais, Co., Chicago).
His best rag with four strong sections of varying character.  A has a fine folk flavor, B features a break, C has a Joplin lyricism since it is stolen from his Peacherine Rag trio, and D is highlighted by treble runs. 
Structure:  INTRO AA BB TRIO-INTRO CC DD
@074 Solace - a Mexican serenade by Scott Joplin (1909- New York:  Seminary Music Co).Employing a slow habanera rhythm in three of its four strains and also marked 'very slow march time', this is a difficult piece to give a correct speed to.  Evidence tends to show that Joplin's ideas of slow may never have been as slow as many of the metronome markings we have given anyway.  His slow probably meant slow in contrast to the breakneck speeds favored by so many flashy pianists.  this is not to deny that there is a right sort of tempo for many pieces, dictated by their nature, and which might even go against what the composer originally indicated.  Solace can be, and has been, played at tempos in the andante range around (112) and its languorous melodies are extremely effective handled like this.  If this takes it outside the strictly ragtime field, no matter; it is a tang- or Mexican serenade, full of ardor and warmth.  Was it perhaps in tribute to the solace that his new marriage had brought?  Whatever its motivation Solace is a wonderfully effective piece of writing, his only one in tango rhythm.  The adjective 'Mexican' may not accurately reflect its true origins which were more probably Cuban, the sort of music that Gottschalk had heard on his travels and which came into America via its trading ports.  It can be compared with Gottschalk's Souvenir de la Havane.  Known in early American musical parlance as the tangana, the first known Negro publication in this form was Jess Pickett's The Dream which was played at Chicago World Fair in 1893.  Joplin might also have come across Will H. Tyer's Maori, published in 1908.  If this motivated him into trying his own hand at tango rhythms, the result was predictably a piece in unmistakable Joplin style that bore no clear relationship to anything that had gone before.

@075 Something Doing - a cakewalk march by Scott Joplin (1903).
A pleasant but quite restrained rag that might be said to contain nothing that Joplin had not attempted before.  A flowing melodic line with a memorable first strain, matched by an equally flowing and attractive second, after that fairly conventional.  But it has an undemanding charm about it and tickled the ears of Peter Clayton in '14 Miles on a Clear Night' leading him to a highly fanciful account of ragtime's origins.  Texturally suited to a steady (144).

@076 St. Louis Blues by W.C. Handy (1912) . Blues was first introduced to the public in 1912, in the midst of the ragtime scene. The terms "ragtime" and "blues" were interchangeable at that time. W.C. Handy was regarded as the "father of the blues", and labeled several of his published blues as rags. Many other blues from W.C. Handy contributed to the blues "fad" around 1912.
@077 St. Louis Rag by Turpin (November 2, 1903.  Sol Bloom, New York,) This was written to celebrate the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, better known as the St. Louis World's Fair, scheduled originally for 1903, but realized a year later.  This is the most orthodox of the Turpins, with the usual Classic rag key change to the subdominant at section C, which is a typical melodic trio.  However, A does not return after B in the most frequent Classic rag pattern.  It features typical Turpin fireworks, beginning with a beautifully syncopated and very pianistic A section.  There are breaks in both B and C sections (another pioneering feature in ragtime by the composer).  D is the final display, sparked with a blaze of ascending chromatic runs, a fitting overture to "that splendid summer" in St. Louis.  This is the first Turpin rage without D. S. DeLisle indicated as arranger. Structure:  INTRO AA BB CC DD

@078 Stoptime Rag by Scott Joplin .( June 4, 1910.  Jos. W. Stern & Co., New York ). This appears in one sense to be a throwback to the earlier Ragtime Dance in which musical breaks are provided so the dancers' stomping feet could be heard.  The stop effects are indicated in the scores of both numbers.  Another unusual feature is that there are seven different melodies of 8 measures each, rather than the usual three or four sections containing 16 measures each.  Truly an experiment - one which worked.  The C section is used as a contrast with long lyrical melody lines in the traditional 16-measure section.  Once again Joplin combines the major and minor tonalities in one piece.  And, for once, the performer is permitted to play "fast or slow." The cover artist took this literally and put a drawing of a clock on the front in a style unlively enough to suggest that it had been stopped for many years.  Joplin had in mind the foot-stamping emphasis that we first encountered in The Ragtime Dance - ' to get the desired effect of "stoptime" the pianist should stamp the heel of one foot upon the floor, wherever the word "Stamp" appears in the music'.  It appears, to be exact, 173 times in the printed score so, with repeats, Joplin probably got a rake-off from the shoe repairers.  With the stamps taking a prominent part and plenty of silent bars, the rag remains very much an exercise in folk dance, entirely gay and rhythmical, probably using some existing melodies which do not have the Joplinesque distinction about them.  With unusual laxity the playing instruction is 'fast or slow'.  It is an entirely free and zestful work and, again, in it one sees some of the ideas that were then whirling in his head as Treemonisha occupied so much of his writing time. Structure:  AA BB A CC DD EE DD FF GG

@079 The Strenuous Life:  A Ragtime Two Step by Scott Joplin.(1902). An unpretentious and not particularly significant or effective rag.  Joplin's inspiration seems to have flagged a little in this one.  There are nice touches in the third strain but it never manages to really get off the ground.

@080 Sugar Cane - a ragtime classic two-step by Scott Joplin (April 21, 1908.  Seminary Music Co., New York). Joplin's liking for vegetable and fruity titles continues with this likewise experimental rag which has a first flowing quaver theme evolving into dance syncopation.  You can find echoes of half-a-dozen earlier rags in this piece - Maple Leaf and Original Rags immediately come to mind - but it has sufficient melodic originality to stand on its own as a sturdy and likable composition.  It orchestrates well.  Also a middle-course tempo piece of around (144).  Actually the first Joplin piece to have tempo marking = (100) being suggested. John Stark objected to Joplin's re-use of the Maple Leaf Rag format, as expressed in his personal ledger.  These remarks were probably intended for advertising blurbs or for use in his Intermezzo magazine:  "No one will perhaps ever surpass Joplin's Maple Leaf, Sunflower or Cascades but alas like all composer do sooner or later, Joplin is verging to the sear and yellow leaf.  His muse seems to have been pumped into innocuous (sic) desuetude, and his labored efforts are but a rehash of Maple Leaf or some of his first numbers that no self respecting publisher would print.  Joplin's case is pitiful.  When he hawks a manuscript around and finally sells it for a few dollars - the next publisher he strikes tells him, 'Why I would have give you $500 for that' - this keeps Joplin miserable and thinking that his last publisher is cheating him.  We have several Joplin manuscripts that were written before the spring of inspiration had run dry which we will bring out from time to time."  A most interesting variation of Maple Leaf Rag which contrasts nicely with Gladiolus but even more illustrates just how fine an improviser Joplin was.  To tie the sections together, as in Nonpareil, he uses the same ending for B and D. Structure:  AA BB A CC DD

@081 Sunburst Rag by James Scott ( Not copyrighted but published 1909.  Stark Music Co., St. Louis).
One of the great joys of Classic ragtime.  The intensely pianistic C section has an ascending break of triads that foretells Novelty ragtime.  Scott uncanningly predicted specific tunes in much later popular music.  This trio, for instance, is identical with a Herb Albert tune called Spanish Flea. Structure:  INTRO AA BB A TRIO-INTRO CC B
@082 Sunflower Slow Drag - a ragtime tow-step by Scott Joplin (with Scott Hayden) (1901-John Stark & Son, ). If there is some excuse for confusing Sunflower Slow Drag with Swipesey as both exploit the same initial kind of melody, a slow version of the cakewalk style of ragtime, Sunflower turns out to be the more inspired collaboration.  Stark has told us that Joplin worked on it 'during the high temperature of courtship ... while he was touching the ground only in the highest places, his geese were all swans, and the Mississippi water tasted like honey-dew ... a song without words' - a highly poetical and evocative appraisal.  But well justified.  As Blesh has said: It is 'among the early gems of ragtime'.  It builds from a memorable introductory four bars, through a conventional but memorable ragtime dance measure to a delightful second section which manages, as Stark suggests, to call for words, to introduce the exciting stomp element of Maple Leaf's third strain and to handle a block chord successfully by simply repeating the same three inversions of F7.  After a four bar modulation, the third strain turns out to be one of the most ingenious and delightful that Joplin ever wrote, with quietly controlled octave crochet left hand and the inspired use of a natural A in the Bb7 harmonies.  Even the fourth strain, often the weak one in a Joplin composition, has a nice floating, cheerful air about it.  We don't know how much credit Scott Hayden should be given but it is an unusually distinctive case of collaborative rapport.  Speed about (144).

@083  Let Me Call You Sweetheart by Leo Friedman. Words by Mrs. Beth Whitson. Illinois born Friedman (1869-1927) was the composer of popular instrumental "reveries," Indian novelties, and cakewalks in the turn-of-the-century mold. Mrs. Whitson was a poetess from Tennessee whose verses appeared in magazines. In 1909 they collaborated on "Meet Me Tonight In Dreamland" which they sold outright for a small fee to a publisher, only to watch it sell 2 million copies of sheet music. The following year they wrote "Sweetheart" which sold 5 million copies, but this time they'd been shrewd enough to make a contract for royalties on every copy sold.
@084  Swipesy a cakewalk by Scott Joplin.(with Arthur Marshall) (July 21, 1900.  John Stark & Son, St. Louis). If the Swipesey collaboration with Arthur Marshall seems pale after the glories of Maple Leaf it still has an endearing character with four strains of simple, folky tunefulness; an unambitious work as one might expect of a collaboration, but eminently danceable and jazzable.  The third section is particularly attractive with a Sousa-like quality about it, a classical descending, imitative melody of mathematical structure.  This is the first true slow rag; specifically named as a 'cakewalk' it confirms the variations of speed in this dance, obviously being intended for some kind of slow strut in contrast to the flashier than (132) and is still effective as slowly as (120).The title was suggested by a local Sedalia newsboy (whose photo is on the original cover) who, Stark said, "looked like he just swiped something."  This has a simple folk spirit suggested by the "cakewalk" title, but is a polished Classic rag in form and ideas, having little to do with the cakewalk tradition.  An important highlight is the lyrical Joplin trio, brought in with abrupt 16th-note bass octaves, much like the embellishments on the hand-played Joplin rolls.  The final section is a quintessential Folk rag style stomper - Marshall at his best. Structure:  INTRO AA BB A CC DD
@085 The Sycamore - a concert rag by Scott Joplin (July 18, 1904.  Will Rossiter, Chicago). The sub-title 'a concert rag' suggests Joplin's increasingly ambitious view of ragtime and its potential acceptance in polite circles.  The Sycamore is notable for its interesting harmonies in the second section and apt choice of bass notes.  It is a short piece that has something of the air of a ragtime etude about it.,  A brisk march tempo \of about (160). The most notable development is the treatment Joplin gives his A section, which is a breakthrough in Maple Leaf's A section.  The C section is a foretaste of a song in Treemonisha.  The D section is unusual for its time with its changing harmonies and use of a diminished chord within such a happy framework.  Joplin experiments with textures of sound here and will develop it in later rags. Structure:  INTRO AA BB CC DD

@086 Temptation Rag by Henry Lodge.  (September 9, 1909.  M. Witmark & Sons, New York).
An unique rag.  The overall tonal plan rejects the classic splitting-in-half in favor of one major key and its relative minor.  This, combined with Lodge's flair for long lyrical lines, results in an unusually cohesive and forward-moving rag.  But the internal element that makes it a success is a masterful use of varied syncopated patterns for each section.  The B section introduces a different idea from A.  Section C begins with still another, yet also recalls that of B.  D functions as an interlude of largely unsyncopated staccato sixteenths; however, its one syncopation is derived from the opening C pattern.  This all lends a developmental air to the rag and contributes to its unity.  His greatest success and one of the biggest rag hits of its day, it was appropriately most always performed by a band.  Although he composed at the piano, he was, from all accounts, a good performer, but his rags did not become pianistic until 1917. Structure:  INTRO AA BB A C D 1/2C B

@087 Tickled to Death by Charles H. Hunter. ( May 11, 1901 Nashville:  Frank G. Fite )A joyous, stomping debut.  I is a typical Nashville rage in that it combines very ambitious syncopation with simpler cakewalk figures. This became a popular and standard rag, and remained available on piano roll into the twenties.  The C section is scored as 32 measures in the tradition of a march.  The 32-bar strain, whether derived from the pop song or the march, persisted in ragtime through the Novelty rags of the twenties.  Usually the section could be scored as 16 measures with two different endings of four measures each.  In early rags, the 32-bar strain is almost never repeated until after an interlude is played.  In later ragtime it was repeated immediately.  Some of these double-16-measure sections have different ideas in each of their last 8 measures.  In two of the Hunter rags, in fact, they are even more asymmetrical in phrasing, as well as in the total concepts.  In these, the basic concept overall is indeed 32 measures. Structure:  INTRO AA B C INTERLUDE C
@088 Weeping Willow - a ragtime two-step by Scott Joplin (June 6, 1903.  Val A. Reis Music Co., St. Louis). This has the same restrained folky atmosphere \about it as The Entertainer and its first strain is amongst Joplin's most endearing efforts.  Like The Entertainer it benefits from a slow, delicate approach and need not be played faster than (132).The first two sections seem like a happy, carefree romp during a lazy, sunny afternoon down South.  Beautifully melodic and with clever use of syncopation it evokes different images - just what Joplin intended.  A wonderfully constructed rag whose various sections bring out differing emotions.  Section C begins with a favorite black folk strain, best remembered in 'Tain't Nobody's Business If I Do. Structure:  INTRO AA BB A CC DD

@089 On Banks of the Wabash by Dresser . 
@090 Wall Street Rag by Scott Joplin (February 23, 1909.  Seminary Music Co. New York).This begins Joplin's experimental period and an attempt to continue his programmatic music which he began with The Cascades.  He labeled each section, intimating a musical description:  A section is entitled, "Panic in Wall Street, Brokers Feeling Melancholy."  B section is called, "Good Times Coming."  C section ( the most happily syncopated in the entire rag) is titled, "Good Times Have Come."  D section is in the fine tradition of having a splendid and victorious ending, utilizing tone clusters and deliberately creating a Folk rag atmosphere for its "Listening to the Strains of Genuine Negro Ragtime, Brokers Forget Their Cares."  There is a gentle, lullaby quality to the A section, and the whole rag is of such sensitivity and character that we may infer a new contentment by the composer in the year of his successful second marriage, and the time of his settling permanently in New York City. What his programmatic pre-occupations do produce are some strains of quite remarkable individuality that start to wander beyond the bounds of strictly classical ragtime.  The initial 'melancholy' strain has a really emotional quality about it and, with its first four bars utilizing a habanera bass and delicate harmonies, it sets Joplin on a rich strain that he was to exploit more fully in his next work.  The third section 'Good times have come' has a distinctly vaudeville air about it and suggests the theatrical potential of Joplin's future work; while the final section with its block chords on the second and sixth quavers of the bar, right in between the beats, is a new trick.  Marked to be played in 'very slow march time', William Bolcom's fine performance of it on his 'Heliotrope Bouquet' disc at around (120) seems just about right.Structure:  INTRO AA BB CC DD


